b' (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: Mark Zuckerberg, the social media giants chief executive, publicly addressed the crisis facing his company, five days after reports about the misuse of data from 50 million of its users.We also made mistakes, theres more to do, and we need to step up and do it, he wrote in a statement outlining the steps Facebook would take to better protect users information. He also spoke to The Times about his plans for change.Given that the gathering of user data is fundamental to the companys operations, lawmakers and researchers were unimpressed by Mr. Zuckerbergs mea culpa: He avoided the big issue, which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy, a Columbia University researcher said. Disillusioned Facebook users  have been leaving the service. Want to delete your account? You can try. A pair of pink construction gloves led to Mark Anthony Conditt, who the police say was responsible for a string of bombings in the Texas capital.On Wednesday, Mr. Conditt, a 23-year-old from the Austin suburbs with no criminal record, detonated one of his homemade devices and killed himself before he could be apprehended. Heres what we know about him. The authorities are now trying to determine a motive. Theyre being helped by a 25-minute confession the suspect left on his phone. President Trump has said the country is an economic enemy of the U.S. that has taken advantage of us like nobody in history.Today, he plans to announce tariffs on at least $50 billion of annual Chinese imports and to impose other penalties in response to the theft of technology and trade secrets. Previously announced tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, which will also affect China, go into effect on Friday.Chinas staggering economic growth has indeed been propelled by unfair trade practices, but experts worry that the presidents go-it-alone approach undermines the potential for collective action. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump appeared to endorse a $1.3 trillion spending deal reached by Congress. Lawmakers must approve the bill by midnight Friday to avoid a government shutdown. Presidents Trumps lead lawyer for the special counsel investigation resigned today, according to two people briefed on the matter.The lawyer, John Dowd, who took over the presidents legal team last summer, had considered leaving several times and ultimately concluded that Mr. Trump was increasingly ignoring his advice, one of the people said. The president has said that he would agree to an interview with the office of the special counsel, Robert Mueller, but Mr. Dowd has said that was a bad idea. At the request of Congress, the bureau investigated Attorney General Jeff Sessions for possible perjury last year, after he inaccurately said that he had no contacts with Russians during the presidential campaign, according to three people familiar with the case.Andrew McCabe, the F.B.I.s deputy director at the time, was said to have authorized the inquiry. Mr. McCabe was recently fired  by Mr. Sessions  for showing lack of candor in an internal investigation. Separately, John Brennan, a former C.I.A. director and a pointed critic of President Trump, said that he thought Russia may have compromising information on the president. He later said that his opinion wasnt based on inside knowledge. Can the Federal Reserve engineer the best economy since the 1960s? Its new chairman, Jerome Powell, is going to try.The central bank raised interest rates on Wednesday and said it expected to do so twice more this year. Time magazine, Sports Illustrated, Fortune and Money  are up for sale. The April 17 deadline for filing taxes  is fast approaching, and many virtual currency traders are sweating over their returns. U.S. stocks were down on Wednesday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Heres how to protect your  Facebook data. Thinking of going to Brazil? Youll need this vaccination. Recipe of the day: Brighten up the usual salmon dinner with a sauce of capers, scallions, parsley and garlic.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:Each year, NPR scours the SXSW Music Festival to find the best up-and-coming acts. (Spotters were early fans of Adele and Kendrick Lamar, among others). Heres the latest 100-song playlist.The Timess chief pop music critic was also there and shared 17 acts that stood out.  Jennifer Jett, senior staff editorYou may have paid for a DNA test to learn about your genetic origins. Why not do that for your dog? With good humor, Kelly Conaboy walks you through her testing of her rescue dog, Peter. Theres a reveal at the end. [The Outline]  Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science Where do birds flock together? Australians are mailing feathers to help find out.A scientist asked people to send her fallen feathers, like the ones shown below, so that she could map bird movements as the countrys wetlands disappear.  In praise of GrandmaWhen we introduced the Overlooked project two weeks ago, we asked readers to suggest people they felt deserved, but didnt get, obituaries in The Times.Weve received close to 2,500 submissions. About 30 were from readers who told us about their grandmothers or great-grandmothers, who often fought strong institutional prejudice. Here are their stories. The Boss remains on BroadwayBruce Springsteens sold-out show, Springsteen on Broadway, has been extended until December.The average ticket price last week was a whopping $507.60. (By comparison, the average price for The Lion King was $149.27.) Best of late-night TVTrevor Noah had sympathy for Mark Zuckerberg: Things are so bad for him right now that Facebook is showing him ads for Xanax. Quotation of the dayI havent seen all the shows, because Im making them. Sister Jean Dolores Schmidt, the 98-year-old chaplain for Loyola University Chicagos mens basketball team, on being an in-demand guest on national talk shows as her flock enters the round of 16 at the N.C.A.A. tournament. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.On this day in 1972, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Eisenstadt v. Baird that its unconstitutional for a state to deny unmarried people access to contraception.The court had ruled earlier, in 1965, that state bans on contraceptives for married couples violated their privacy rights. But a few states still restricted access for single people.Bill Baird, an activist, violated one such law in Massachusetts. He appealed his conviction to the Supreme Court, which struck down the law.Justice William Brennan held that the law violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment because it discriminated between married and unmarried people.The case became an important precedent for landmark rulings by the Supreme Court, including the 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade that recognized abortion rights, and, more recently, the 2015 decision guaranteeing a right to same-sex marriage.A movie about Mr. Bairds case is in development.Mr. Baird has continued working as an activist, but his legacy is complicated by what The Times described in 1993 as an unapologetic zealotry and a willingness to criticize even his ideologic allies. Planned Parenthood once called him an embarrassment.Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.'