b'Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherFive days after details about Cambridge Analytica were made public, Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, broke his silence on his companys role in the data breach.Minutes after posting a statement on Facebook, he spoke with The New York Times.On todays episode: Kevin Roose, a business columnist for The Times.Background reading: Facebook, in crisis over the Cambridge Analytica data breach, vows to bolster security and privacy. A transcript of Mr. Zuckerbergs conversation with Mr. Roose and another Times reporter, Sheera Frenkel.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you dont see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to The Daily from any podcast player. If youre reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If youre on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find The Daily there. (Heres the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the play button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if youre doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select settings, then flash briefing, then get more flash briefing content. Look for The New York Times and select enable skill. Now you can say, Alexa, whats my flash briefing? and you will hear that days episode of The Daily.On Google Home:You can say, O.K., Google, play New York Times to listen to that days episode of The Daily.'