b'Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Facebook has had a particularly bad few days, even for a Silicon Valley giant that has been under fire for months. The social network, which was once Silicon Valleys pride and joy, is now facing a new scandal over data privacy  and the fallout has been intense and keeps widening.Lets recap how it all unfolded:Over the weekend, The New York Times, along with The Observer of London and The Guardian, broke the news that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly obtained data on 50 million Facebook users and used it to target messages to potential American voters.The revelations set off an immediate hue and cry. American and British lawmakers demanded that Facebook explain how the data had been harvested without people being alerted. Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota, pressed Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, to appear before lawmakers in person. Others have since piled on.On Monday, The Times reported that Facebooks executive in charge of information security, Alex Stamos, was planning to leave the social network by August. The move reflected heightened internal tensions at the top of the company, showing how the scrutiny has taken a toll.Criticism of Facebook intensified on Tuesday. Wall Street investors sold off the companys shares, with a nearly 7 percent drop on Monday and a 2.5 percent fall on Tuesday. To top it off, the Federal Trade Commission opened an investigation into whether Facebook violated an agreement on data privacy, sparked by the Cambridge Analytica reports.Where have Mr. Zuckerberg and other Facebook leaders been in all of this, you may ask? Good question. The top brass at the companys headquarters in Menlo Park have been silent for days.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) A powerful storm is barreling toward Southern California, prompting the third round of evacuation orders in Santa Barbara County this month. More than 30,000 have been told to evacuate. [The Los Angeles Times] The U.S. Supreme Court, during oral arguments, signaled its hostility to a law requiring so-called crisis pregnancy centers in California to provide information about abortion services. [The New York Times] Californias housing problems are spilling across its borders, to cities like Reno, Nev., and others. [The New York Times] The Sacramento Police Department clarified that a black man who was shot 20 times and killed by officers was not carrying a toolbar, but instead a cellphone. [The Sacramento Bee] The Los Angeles Police Department will now be required to release videos captured by body cameras and patrol cars, following a policy shift by the Police Commission. [The Los Angeles Times] The movement to #DeleteFacebook has gained steam in recent days. [The San Francisco Chronicle] Orange County may add homeless camps in three cities, part of newly approved spending totaling $90 million, which will appropriated to fight the homeless problem. [The Orange County Register] Ten years ago, Gavin Newsom, as mayor of San Francisco, ordered that undocumented minors arrested for felonies be reported to Immigration and Customs Enforcements. [Bay Area News Group] San Franciscos board of supervisors voted Tuesday to ban the sale of fur within the city. [The San Francisco Chronicle] Dispatch: Visitors flock to the San Bernardino National Forest and two California state parks, armed with cameras and spotting scopes, to see bald eagles. [The New York Times] The Roxie Theater in San Francisco held a preview of Wes Andersons new film, Isle of Dogs. The screening was B.Y.O.D.: bring your own dog. [The New York Times]The rain storms hitting California this week have been called many things, but two related terms keep popping up to describe this weather system: atmospheric river and Pineapple Express.So which one is it?Pineapple Express was a term for many years used to identify storms that came from Hawaii and hit the West Coast, said Marty Ralph, a research meteorologist affiliated with U.C. San Diegos Scripps Institution of Oceanography. About 15 years ago we recognized that theres a broader definition called an atmospheric river, and those happen all over the planet.For non-scientists, atmospheric rivers can be conceptualized visually.If you look from space from a satellite, it does look like a sinuous river, said Daniel Swain, a climate scientist at U.C.L.A. Its a colorful term, and its actually the official meteorological term to describe this process.But while all Pineapple Express storms are atmospheric rivers, not all atmospheric rivers are classified as Pineapple Express storms.The source for the particular atmospheric river hitting California this week is near the Hawaiian Islands, hence the playful Pineapple Express. Not everyone agrees, though, that this storm falls under that category.I wouldnt call this one a Pineapple Express. The storm is coming from the West, but the tail of this atmospheric river didnt come from Hawaii, it came from east of Hawaii, Mr. Ralph said. But Im not sure about arguing the jargon too much on this. The modern term is atmospheric river.Nomenclature aside, Mr. Swain urged residents in burn areas not to ignore the orders because of storm fatigue. Though the storm may not hit Los Angeles too hard, it could wallop those in Santa Barbara County. The forecast is severe, and if water falls too quickly it could lead to substantial flooding and mudslides.The forecast is for a really, really big rain, he said. Maybe half a foot or more of water is going to fall in a lot of places that have had intense fire activity. Whether all those inches of rain fall over three days or in a six hours is hard to predict.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.'