b'SPECIAL POST  People from all walks of life sit down every day (Maybe some of you stand. Who am I to judge?) and solve puzzles to help satisfy that need to put the world in order and test their gray matter.One not-so-well-kept secret on the puzzle-making side of the business is that your favorite puzzle makers may have learned their trade from a more experienced constructor (Full disclosure: I owe my career to Nancy Salomon, who was incredibly patient with me as I learned the ropes.) Mentors are published constructors who give generously of their time and teach new constructors how to polish a theme, what good fill looks like and how to write clues. They are continually giving back to the puzzle community. We stand on their shoulders.Now, two puzzle makers, along with a group of constructors who are generously volunteering their time, would like to help diversify the pool of constructors who contribute to newspapers and magazines. Will Nediger, a 28-year-old professional puzzle maker from London, Ontario, and Erik Agard, a constructor from Gaithersburg, Maryland who makes puzzle for a variety of venues including the Indie 500 Crossword Tournament, have teamed up to encourage more women and people of color to learn the art of crossword puzzle construction.Mr. Nediger and Mr. Agard have created a public group on Facebook called the Puzzle Collaboration Directory, an online resource that will match aspiring puzzle makers with experienced constructors to help them learn the craft. While anyone is welcome to join and find a published constructor, the focus is on diversifying the rotation normally seen in newspaper and magazine puzzles.If a potential constructor has patience, tenacity and [an aptitude for] lateral thinking, they have what they need to become a good puzzle maker, says Mr. Nediger. And, Mr. Agard chimes in, a love for solving puzzles. Thats all constructing is, in my opinion, a slightly different puzzle and with room for individuality.Aspiring puzzlemakers who are not on Facebook can still access the mentors. This is a growing list, but contact any of the constructors here to get started:'