b'BEIJING  Kim Jong-uns surprise visit to Beijing this week to meet President Xi Jinping added an element of intrigue to talks over North Koreas nuclear program. It was also a propaganda opportunity for both men. For Mr. Xi, the meeting was a chance to cultivate an image as a peacemaker on the global stage. For Mr. Kim, it was an opportunity to signal membership in the club of world leaders.Heres a look at how the Chinese and North Korean news media portrayed the meeting.In North Korea, Mr. Kim is often pictured alongside throngs of admirers who hang on and record his every word.But it was Mr. Kim who was taking notes during his meeting with Mr. Xi, at least in the Chinese news media coverage on Wednesday. Mr. Kim, 34, was shown scribbling on a piece of paper as Mr. Xi, 64, spoke of the need for close ties between their two countries.The images gave Mr. Xi the appearance of an elder statesman at a time when he has sought to expand Chinas influence over global affairs.Ryan Hass, a former director for China at the National Security Council who is now a fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said the coverage signaled that Beijing is in control of a complex security challenge, serving as the center of international efforts to defuse tensions on the Korean Peninsula.While the Chinese news media published less flattering images of Mr. Kim, the North Korean media made sure he came across at home as charismatic, showing him smiling and offering a forceful handshake to Mr. Xi.The state-run media showed photos of Mr. Kims extensive motorcade as well as Mr. Xi appearing to offer a toast to Mr. Kim. Those images did not appear in the Chinese media.Mr. Kim, making his debut on the global stage, was most likely eager to show he was a respected figure who could hold his own with one of the worlds most powerful leaders. In North Korea he was depicted, without exception, as strong and in charge.Mao Zedong once said China and North Korea, longtime Communist allies, were as close as lips and teeth.But relations between the two countries have been strained in recent decades. However, there was no hint of that tension in the coverage of Mr. Kims visit this week.The Chinese and the North Korean news media portrayed the two countries as ideological comrades. Mr. Kim was welcomed in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, as a military band played. News reports said he and Mr. Xi watched an art performance together, joined by their wives.Orville Schell, director of the Center on U.S.-China Relations at Asia Society in New York, described the pageantry as a renaissance of the old socialist-style, big-leader rituals.They certainly didnt just sneak him in the back door, he said of Mr. Kim. It looked like he got pretty close to the full monty.Both men seemed eager to convey that they have a renewed commitment to working together, and a personal chemistry that will unite them.Mr. Xi showed considerable warmth toward Mr. Kim, smiling widely and offering affectionate embraces. Mr. Kim returned the fondness, waving enthusiastically as he departed.The budding alliance between the two leaders may put new pressure on President Trump, who is expected to meet with Mr. Kim in the coming weeks. While the location for a meeting has not yet been decided, some analysts say that Mr. Xi may be angling to have it in Beijing.That would make Trump like the three-wheel bicycle, Mr. Schell said. He would have to go to Beijing again, and almost be the supplicant to these old allies that have patched up their marriage.'